<p>My name is Thomas Felton, I am a junior data science major (concentration in AI) and a minor in chemistry. I enjoy outdoor activities like fishing, hiking, beach football, and swimming. I am the president of club baseball at W&M as well as the pitching coach. I volunteer for varsity baseball as a scout and am in the process of creating some statistical models based around grading the effectiveness of pitches. My dream job would be working professionally for a Major League baseball team in some sort of data science role.
</p>
<p>I signed up for this course primarily because of my chemistry research lab. With the help of labbmates over a few years we've created an intricate molecular dynamics simulation pipeline. I understand how to run the code and have a basic understanding of how the HPC works, but I struggle writing my own code. Specifically parallelizable code with MPI. I would also like to learn more about the differences between bash and tschrc and cshrc because I don't even have a baseline understanding of how or why they differ. Essentially, I would like to get to a point where I could create my own HPC filebase and pipeline of some sort from scratch. 
</p>
<p>My goals for this course include better understanding git and github, improving my terminal coding skills, and improving my optimization skills. I am not the most knowledgeable in writing/running code in an efficient manner, I typically use the 'if it works don't touch it' strategy. I also am not the best at writing code to test for errors and debugging in general, I am not sure if this is the class to better that area, but it is still a goal I have for this semester.
</p>
<p>My plan of attack this semester starts with working ahead, as I have a tendency of waiting until the last minute to do work. This semester I think will be my hardest yet so I have to make myself stay on top of my work. I plan on accomplishing this by getting in a routine and creating a designated 'work space' whether that is the library or ISC or somewhere else. I am the most productive when I am sticking to a routine. This semester I plan on going to the gym Monday, Wednesday, and Friday and hopefully that will help me stick to my routine better. I will also do a better job of working collaboratively with peers, I tend to stick to myself and work alone and I know that I can learn better when I discuss ideas with other students. I also need to attend more office hours. I have stayed away from office hours in the past, but every time I have gone they have been very useful, so I want to incorporate them better into my learning habits.
</p>
<p>The folder structure I have created for this assignment is good for reproducable research because it seperates all the components into separate places. The data is contained in two subsets: raw and cleaned, mostly to keep the raw data isolated and unmodified and uphold ethical responsibilities. The images folder would contain charts and visualization, most likely it would grow to include multiple subfolders. The log file is self explanatory. I find a scratch folder crucial to my coding. It is where I keep copies of scripts that are works and progress so I can modify them without fear of losing progress or breaking functions that were previously working. The config file was, in all honesty, a throw in. My folderspace for my large simulation pipeline contains config files that I have never touched because I am scared to break something. I suppose another goal would be learning how to properly create and use config files.
</p>
<p>Documented code is crucial to research tasks because code should be used for execution, not explanation. In complex pipelines with many steps and versions it can be difficult to the point of impossibility to simply look through the code and understand what it is doing. This is why written methods and docstrings are so important. It is also important for reproducibility, when multiple people work on a project files can be moved and coding styles can conflict. Documentation also eliminates false assumptions and makes bugs easier to detect, computational errors don't always cause error messages so documentation is crucial for accuracy checking. Essentially, code alone should explain how it runs, documentation should make it more interpretable as well as explain why it was structured in the way that it is. 
</p>
<p>
##I wrote this entire essay in github so I apologize if there are some grammatical errors. I also hope the casual tone was appropriate for this assignment, I apologize if it was not.</p>
